---
layout: minutes
title: Minutes of the Meeting on January 06, 2009
date: 2017-01-30
---
<p>The meeting was held in the Kanata Room in Sobey's, at the SW corner of Hazeldean and Terry Fox Drive in Kanata.</p>
       <p>The following people were present:</p>


<Div div style="position=relative;left:100px;">
<table>
  <tr>
   <th>Name</th>
   <th>Call Sign</th>
   <th>Position</th>
   <th>MH Grid</th>
   <th>RAC</th>
   <th>WCARC</th>
  </tr>

<TR><TD>Barney Baker</TD><TD>VA3BGB</TD><TD>Secretary</TD><TD>FN25ai</TD><TD>YES</TD><TD>YES</TD></TR>
<TR><TD>Bernie Madore</TD><TD>VA3BMZ</TD><TD>Guest</TD><TD>FN15</TD><TD>YES</TD><TD>NO</TD></TR>
<TR><TD>Dean Denter</TD><TD>VA3CDD</TD><TD>Member</TD><TD>FN15wl</TD><TD>YES</TD><TD>YES</TD></TR>
<TR><TD>Ken Asmus</TD><TD>VA3KA</TD><TD>Treasurer</TD><TD>FN15wg</TD><TD>YES</TD><TD>YES</TD></TR>
<TR><TD>Peter Jago</TD><TD>VA3PJ</TD><TD>Member</TD><TD>FN25</TD><TD>YES</TD><TD>YES</TD></TR>
<TR><TD>Stan Madore</TD><TD>VA3SMM</TD><TD>Guest</TD><TD>FN15</TD><TD>YES</TD><TD>NO</TD></TR>
<TR><TD>Harold Hamilton</TD><TD>VA3UNK</TD><TD>Member</TD><TD>FN25dj</TD><TD>YES</TD><TD>YES</TD></TR>
<TR><TD>Graham Ide</TD><TD>VE3BYT</TD><TD>Member</TD><TD>FN25ch</TD><TD>YES</TD><TD>YES</TD></TR>
<TR><TD>Rick Bandla</TD><TD>VE3CVG</TD><TD>Webmaster</TD><TD>FN25hm</TD><TD>YES</TD><TD>YES</TD></TR>
<TR><TD>Doug Leach</TD><TD>VE3XK</TD><TD>VicePresident</TD><TD>FN15wg</TD><TD>YES</TD><TD>YES</TD></TR>
<TR><TD>Dale Hennigar</TD><TD>VE3XZT</TD><TD>Director</TD><TD>FN15</TD><TD>YES</TD><TD>YES</TD></TR>
<TR><TD>Adam Kuzych</TD><TD>VE3ZXK</TD><TD>Guest</TD><TD>None</TD><TD>YES</TD><TD>NO</TD></TR>
<TR><TD>Al Penney</TD><TD>VO1NO</TD><TD>President</TD><TD>FN24cw</TD><TD>YES</TD><TD>YES</TD></TR>


</table>
</div>
<br><br>


<Strong>Opening:</strong><br><br>
   The meeting was opened by President Al Penney(VO1NO) at 19:35 hours.
<br><br>
	President Al (VO1NO) welcomed the guests and asked the members to introduce themselves.<br><br>The President circulated a proposed agenda for the evening and asked for any changes. None were offered.<br><BR><BR>

<Strong>Reports:</Strong>
<br><br>

<!--Secretary-->
   -<Strong>Secretary's Report</Strong>
   <br><br>


Secretary Barney Baker(VA3BGB) moved that the previous minutes as published on the web pages be approved. Seconded by Dale Hennigar(VE3XZT).
<BR><BR>
Motion approved.
<br><br>

<!--SecretaryEnd-->

<!--Treasurer-->
   -<Strong>Treasurer's Report</Strong>
<br><br>
Treasurer Ken Asmus(VA3KA) apprised the meeting of the number of paid
members as well as any changes to the Club's cash position.
<br><br>
	The Treasurer reported that there were 19 paid up members. The Club has $454.80 in the bank.<BR><BR>

<!--TreasurerEnd-->




<Strong>Old Business:</Strong>
<br><br>



<Strong>New Business:</Strong>
<br><br>
        <U><STRONG>Plaque</STRONG></U><br>Doug - VE3XK described the efforts and generosity of Manfred - VA3WK and moved to create and present a plaque to Manfred recognizing him for donation to WCARC of the 2M and 70CM repeater systems and the IRLP Node computer and 70CM radio. Dale - VE3XZT seconded the motion. Passed<br><br><U><STRONG>Beacon Modules</STRONG></U><br>After Doug - VE3XK described the costs incurred by Ken - VA3KA, Graham - VE3BYT moved that the cost of the beacon power supply be paid to Ken. Seconded by Dale - VE3XZT. Passed<br><br><U><STRONG>Thankyou Letter to Sobey's</STRONG></U><br>Ken - VA3KA suggested that a letter of thanks be prepared to Sobey's to express our appreciation for the use of the meeting room and for the very helpful nature of the staff. Ken will provide the draft to Al - VO1NO/VE3 for his action.<br><br><U><STRONG>Notice</STRONG></U><br>President Al, VO1NO, gave notice that the cost of the 2m beacon module, which exceeds $400, would be discussed at the February general meeting with the intent to compensate the club member for his personal expenditure for the module, during the March general meeting. This notice complies with Bylaw 10, which states (quote) Expenditures exceeding $400 shall require 2 weeks notice prior to discussion at a general meeting following which a majority vote will be held at the next general meeting. (end quote)<br><br><br>


<Strong>Other Business:</Strong>
<br><br>
        <U><STRONG>Upcoming Events</STRONG></U><br>Al VO1NO/VE3 provided information on a number of future events. Nearfest near Manchester New Hampshire, 1st &amp; 2nd of May, 2009 was discussed with a number of members expressing interest in attending.<br><br><U><STRONG>Beacon Project </STRONG></U><br>Doug VE3XK provided a short update presentation on recent work done on the beacons. The presentation may be viewed via the Presentations tab on the web site.<br><br><U><STRONG>June VHF Grid Expedition</STRONG></U><br>Al VO1NO/VE3 described this event to occur the 2nd weekend of June 2009 and asked for an indication from those who would be interested in participating. Several members indicated interest so Al will begin preparations for that event.<br><br><U><STRONG>Balloon Project</STRONG></U><br>Balloon Project Chair Graham VE3BYT gave a brief update on the state of the project.  Graham indicated that specifications and hardware availability must be finalized soon to be ready for a spring launch.  Several major considerations remain, including:  1) Cost of the balloon and helium is expected to be around $5-600.  Sponsorship by some organization will be needed to help offset these costs.  2) So far there are no volunteers to track the balloon for recovery.  It is unlikely that a launch will take place unless a chase and recovery crew becomes involved.<br><br><U><STRONG>D-STAR</STRONG></U><br>Rick VE3CVG is working with representatives of the YMCA to improve the D-STAR Internet access situation. Dale VE3XZT mentioned that he had acquired a D-STAR dongle for approximately $200.00.  see http://www.dvdongle.com/<br><br><U><STRONG>Repeaters Update</STRONG></U><br>Repeater Committee Chair Dale VE3XZT mentioned that work on the repeaters is completed.  A new CW identification chip, programmed with VE3WCC/R, has been installed in the 2M repeater and  tested OK.  The repeater will be re-installed this week at the Franktown tower site by Phil VE3CIQ.  The 70CM repeater is working well.  It identifies properly in voice, which originates remotely in the IRLP Node.  That IRLP Node computer system will be relocated to the new home of John VE3IAO, in Almonte.  Unfortunately, due to network problems, the IRLP function has only been working  outbound since June, when the system was moved from John's previous home in Carp, to the home of Steve Mayne VE3LWX, near Franktown.  John's new high-speed service should return the IRLP function to normal. Our recent work on the repeaters and IRLP Node has resulted in complete documentation, instruction manuals on all systems, and an upcoming PowerPoint presentation in the new year.<br><br><U><STRONG>Web Master</STRONG></U><br>Webmaster Rick VE3CVG provided the invoice for the cost of the club's domain name for the year to Treasurer Ken - VA3KA. Ken will look after mailing a cheque to Mondenet.  Rick will work towards transfering the domain name to himself.<br><br>


<Strong>Presentation(s)/Activity:</Strong>
<br><br>
	 Al - VO1NO/VE3 gave his presentation on the so-called "Chase Me Charlies", a very interesting historical account of the WWII German radio-guided bombs responsible for a number of Allied ship sinkings. Thank you Al for informing us of a largely unknown historical technology.<br><br>


<Strong>Adjournment:</Strong>
<br><br>
The President Al Penney(VO1NO) called for a motion to close the meeting.
Moved by Ken Asmus(VA3KA) that the meeting be adjourned.
Seconded by Rick Bandla(VE3CVG). Closed at 22:15 hours.
